XML:- eXtensible Markup Language is a meta-markup language.

Markup languages are use for presenting the data in the form of tags.

XML is use for storing the data, describe and transport the data. it is a database support. it is also database.

xml called markup language because it use with tags.

html tags is predefined and xml tags is user defined.

XML is a document processing standard that is an official recommendation of the world wide web consortium(W3C).

XML is not a replacement for html.

XML is not relational database model.

Difference between XML and HTML:-

1. html was designed to display data and to focus on how data looks and xml was designed to describe data and to
focus on what the data is.

2. in html we must use predefined tags and in xml we have to define own tags.

3. html is not case sensitive and xml is case sensitive.

4. html is content unaware and xml is content aware.

5. html does not checks syntax and xml checks syntax.

6. when html is used to display data, the data is stored inside your html and xml can separate data from html.
with xml our data is stored outside.

Elements in XML:-

an xml element is everything from the elements start tag to the element end tag.

  
Processing instruction:

starts with <?    ?>

version is an mandatory attribute.

xml tag attribute:- version, encoding, standalone.

DTD:- document type definition.

Well- formed XML:-

1. must contain at least one element must have a root element.
2. every start tag must have a corresponding end tag.
3. all tags must be properly nested.
4. tag name can start underscore(_).


XML-DTD:-

DTD- Document Type Definition.

XML Parsers

An element in an DTD file is represented as:-

<!ELEMENT ELEMENT_NAME CONTENT_MODEL>
Name: is the name of the element you are defining.
Content model: specifies what the xml element can contain.
following are the different types of content models.

Empty content model:-

<!Element letter EMPTY>

Content_model:-

1. ANY:- indicates that the element can have any type of content.

   which means the element content will not be validated by the xml parser.

<!ELEMENT PRODUCT ANY>

2. CHILD ELEMENTS:- you can specify any element to contain other xml elements.

<!ELEMENT BOOK(CHAPTER)>

(CHAPTER)+ it means chapter have more than one.
(CHAPTER)? it means chapter is either zero or one.

We have to write dtd element in each xml tags.

3. PCDATA:- is the non markup text.


the parsed character data(PCDATA). every dtd have PCDATA.

PCDATA will allow an element to contain only text but not other child elements.

4. MIXED:- an element can contain both child element and text in which case the content model would be mixed.

<!ELEMENT chapter(#PCDATA|NoofPages)*>

5. EMPTY:- empty elements do not have any text in content model.



DTD Types:-

1. Internal DTD:- xml and DTD are in the same file.

<! DOCTYPE root-element[element-declarations]>


2. External DTD:-

.dtd extension


for external dtd, SYSTEM is the keyword and it is compulsory.



